This, and this is all you need to
replace Dropbox and Google Drive.
You're gonna use this to make
your own cloud. In this video,
I just might convince you to stop
using Google Drive, OneDrive, Dropbox,
whatever it is, even if you're a business,
let's kick that sucker to the curb.
I almost pull a muscle. Most of
us paid Dropbox, Google Drive,
OneDrive to host and keep
our data in the cloud,
giving them control of our data.
That feels good, doesn't it? But hey,
we do get a little bit of
convenience in return, right?
We can easily share all these files
and we have the peace of mind that it's
always gonna be there and accessible
until Google decides it shouldn't be.
Or they change their prices or
they go down or they get hacked.
All of these things have happened. So
the solution is to create your own,
create your own clout, host your own
stuff. Now, this is actually crazy simple.
All you're gonna need
seriously is a computer.
It could be a spare laptop with
a little external hard drive.
It could be a virtual machine, a docker
container. It can be in the clout,
which I know sounds weird, but you're
hosting it yourself. It's different.
I'll show you. And you're gonna find
that Google Drive, Dropbox, OneDrive,
they haven't been giving us all the
features we deserve. So right now,
I'm gonna show you two self hosting
features that are kind of gonna blow your
mind. They have way more features
than Dropbox and Google Drive Gross.
Don't put that gr, that was so corny
and dumb. Don't put the last part.
So get your coffee ready.
We're gonna give you a cloud
experience on your own hardware,
which that just sounds cool, right?
You're building your own cloud in a way,
and you're gonna learn a ton along the
way. So if you're learning it, man,
this is for you. And if you're not,
do it anyway. Cuz this is for you too.
Coffee break. And by the way,
this is my default route roast.
It's my stinking favorite.
It's a single origin coffee from Ethiopia,
probably my favorite origin for coffee.
It has notes of berry chocolate and
caramel and yes, I can taste all of it.
You can too. And shout out to File
Cloud for sponsoring this video.
So now let's talk about what do
you need? Well, first of all,
you don't need these guys.
You're done. Goodbye. Actually,
before we talk about what we
need, there were two options.
I mentioned now why two?
Well, let's cover that.
But first I just want you to know
they're both free, completely free.
But they do target different
audiences. For example,
our first one we're talking
about is File Cloud.
They are the sponsor of this video.
They do have a free community edition,
but their target audience is
large companies, enterprises,
which is something I love by the
way, because I get to use a tool,
the same tool that large companies use.
I'll tell you why I love
that here in a second.
But the second option is next
cloud. Next cloud is pretty cool,
but it's more home lap.
You probably won't see an enterprise
company using this and that's fine.
Both of these have a
ton of amazing features.
I'm not gonna tell you
what you wanna pick.
You're gonna have to figure that out.
I'm just gonna show you what they do.
Now let's talk about what you
need to deploy either of these.
You got a couple options.
Just know it's gonna be pretty easy
With an asterisk <laugh>, you'll see,
but you're gonna learn a lot. Trust me,
many of you'll want host this OnPrem
or in your house, in your business,
whatever it is. And that's kinda
the main selling point, right?
Like gimme my data. No one can have it.
It's not leaving my house unless I
can share it securely, but you can't.
So for that, you can have a spare
laptop collecting dust in your closet.
You can install it on your Windows
machine you're using right now,
or a Windows server if you're a nerd
like me. Or it can go on any Linux.
Server F Cloud loves Ubuntu 2004 server
L T s. I said all that backwards.
That was weird. It can also be a Docker
container. So you have a lot of options.
Oh, they even have a image
for virtual box and ES xxi,
whichever option you choose. It's
really, really simple to get installed.
We'll walk through it.
Then the other option I think is more
fun and you're gonna learn a ton.
And that's in the cloud. So I know it
sounds weird like we're leaving the cloud,
but you're gonna put me back in
the cloud. What are you doing?
You kind of have more control
though. You do have more control.
We're gonna put the sucker
in aws, Amazon's cloud,
which means we're gonna get to learn a
few things about how to do things in the
cloud like e C two and s3. I'm gonna
walk you through the entire thing,
but you're gonna end up hosting your
own drive in the cloud. Your own cloud,
in the cloud. So my advice,
if you wanna play around and have fun
and learn a ton, do pick both options.
Play with it.
Now keep in mind that on-prem is gonna
be completely free as long as you have
stuff aws,
they do charge for hosting because you're
not just using your hardware anymore,
you're using someone else's
hardware and you gotta rent. Okay?
That's what you need.
Oh, <laugh>, I forgot.
The most important thing you need
coffee you do. That's required in it.
Everything in it requires copy. We're
gonna start with File Cloud. Now,
as I mentioned before,
one of the main reasons I love File
Cloud is because they're enterprise,
they target large companies. But
why do I like that? Well, for me,
and I think probably for you too,
the reason I build my home lab is so I
can kind of pretend to be a company cost
playing as a company, right?
Because I wanna get hands on the skills
and experience with stuff companies
might use and then pay me for those
skills, right? That's the goal.
My home lab is to learn.
So any chance I can get to host
something in my lab that's enterprise,
that companies really actually
might use, I'm gonna take it.
And I love that you
can install on Windows.
I think it's probably one of the only
host your own cloud solutions out there
that install on Windows, which is why,
why companies love it, right? But yeah,
windows 10 and up Windows Server 2000
something I, I forget what it is.
Then you put a thing
there for what version?
It was the file Clouds was known as
an EFS or an enterprise file sharing
solution. E F S.
Their goal is to help you make
your own private cloud as a person,
as a business.
They got you back an emphasis on
the enterprise because it's really,
really powerful and really, really secure.
That's why they're big in government
finance and education nowadays.
Data is the name of the game.
Keeping your data safe and secure,
making sure you're not sharing it with
someone you shouldn't. I mean, goodness.
Can you think about a large company that
uses Dropbox and trying to control who
they share your data
with? That's a nightmare.
I'm just worried about my two kids in
there who are using Dropbox and Google
Drive, not to mention my employees.
Goodness. Now for the community edition,
before we install it,
lemme tell you a few things I love it
for and why you might wanna install it
right now.
Of course you get remote access to
your files from anywhere and it's free.
You also have full control of your
stuff, of your data and it's private.
And then this is just incredible <laugh>,
I've been wanting this from Google Drive
and Dropbox forever and they just don't
do it.
They have hyper secure file sharing and
what that means cuz that that's just a
word, right? What that means is when you
share a file password protected limit,
the time it's allows it to be downloaded,
limit the amount of downloads
that can occur. Create a file.
Say you can only download it until next
week and you can only download it one
time. That's killer, right?
Most solutions you can download a an
application that'll sync your files back
and forth, but you can also, and
I don't think else does this,
you can mount the share or you can mount
your drive as a network share and it
acts just like, it's so cool. If you're
like, what are you talking about Chuck?
I'll show you in a second. It's amazing.
Now beyond the community edition,
there are some things that they
do enterprise that will just,
you didn't even know what's
possible. It's crazy.
And we'll talk about that just for a
moment so you can see what's out there.
So you can learn what companies
do to protect their data.
I think it's important to know that
because a big thing that File Cloud cares
about is data governance. Putting
retention policies on your data,
having smart D L P or
data leak prevention.
They even have zero trust file
sharing and antivirus scanning,
all kinds of stuff I'll
show you. So now the setup,
I'm gonna start with AWS because
honestly it's the most fun.
Like really it's so fun. If
you don't care about aws,
if you wanna host this on your own,
I will have timestamps just jump
forward to that point in time stamp.
That's one step I'm not gonna repeat.
So you wanna watch this right now and
that's setting up a file cloud account and
getting your community edition license,
which by the way used to be a paid license
for community, used to be $10 a year.
Now it's free. So you got
nothing to complain about.
I mean I'm sure you could find something
and I'll see it in the comments,
won't I? I'm talking to you buddy.
Before you finish hitting enter,
take a sip of coffee, take a breath,
I'll take my own advice much
better. So file cloud account,
let's set that sucker up right now.
We're gonna navigate out to ce dot
file cloud.com CE for community
edition here. We have a lot of
the stuff I already showed you.
Feel free to peruse that. But we're gonna
scroll down and click on download now,
which is gonna take us to the whole,
hey, you need an account thing.
So let's get an account.
Bernard Hack. Wow,
personal use. I have read everything man.
Anyone else feel out they're lying when
they click that I didn't read anything
but I do agree blindly verification
code And we're in from here.
It's pretty simple. We're
gonna click on download now.
Download now and then click on download.
That's gonna give you a few
options of how you can do this.
Right now we're gonna laser focus
in on AWS because it's awesome.
Clicking that will take you to the guide,
which we're gonna depend on right now.
And I'll walk you through and this will
be actually pretty easy now if you've
never used AWS before, I am so
excited for you. It's so fun. In fact,
right now you can sign up
for a free tier account,
which means you'll get a ton
of stuff for free in aws.
You may even be able to
set this up for free.
So you wanna head out to aws.amazon.com
and get started for free.
I'm not gonna walk you through
it, I've got other videos on that.
But go ahead and set up an account or
get logged in if you already have one and
meet me back here. Now here we are
in the AWS console. It's kind of fun,
don't get overwhelmed, there's a lot
going on. But let's navigate through this.
First we're gonna go up here
to the services tab or button.
Click that from here we're gonna click
on the compute little menu icon right
there. And finally we'll click on E C two,
which is their service to create virtual
machines and the cloud. Click on that.
Now, mental note real quick.
Up here at the top right,
you'll see what region you're
currently in. I'm in North Virginia,
which is US East one. If you're
somewhere different, just remember that,
write it down, whatever. It'll
come in handy here in a bit.
Now from here we're gonna
click on launch instance.
We're gonna create an e C two virtual
machine launch instance. Let's name it.
And then just below the name,
we have the option to search for
an Amazon machine image, an aami.
We're gonna search for file
cloud right there. Hit enter.
Now it's not gonna show you anything
until you click on the AWS marketplace.
Amis right here. Once you click on
that, boom, file cloud's right there.
First one is what we want. Click
on select Now file cloud is free.
Amazon isn't all the time and it's gonna
tell you the server they recommend,
the size and how much it will cost
you per hour, which is a T2 medium.
That's how they uh, refer to the
sizing of their virtual machines.
The amount of virtual CPUs that
give you ram hard drive space.
We'll walk through that. But
anyways, let's click on continue.
Now with that selected, let's
walk through this together.
Scroll down just a bit. Here
we have our instant type,
which they already default
selected for us to be T2 medium.
Now I'm gonna go with that,
but you don't have to. In fact,
I've installed this on a smaller version,
especially if you're on the free tier.
You can do the T2 Micro,
which is free tier eligible.
You can do that just to try it out.
Just have fun so you're not
charged anything at all.
And if you're wondering Chuck, what's
the advantage of going t2? Medium. Uh,
it's faster. It can handle more.
You're gonna have a better experience
going with a larger computer.
That's true in everything from gaming to
cloud. Next we have our key pair login.
AWS is big on using a key pair to
login. So as opposed to a password,
they're gonna want you to have a key that
you'll use to unlock to get into their
server. And we're gonna
create that right now.
We're gonna create the lock and
key. That's what a key pair is.
So we'll create a new key
pair. If you already have one,
you don't have to create a
new one. I'll name this hack.
Well everything else is fine. I'll say
create keep here. And what that will do,
you'll notice it downloaded the key,
which I'll want to keep and refer
to in a minute. Just keep it there.
Keep it safe. The lock will be on the
server. Now that's pretty much it.
If we scroll down just a little bit
just to make sure everything's good,
it looks all good to me. You can
add more stuff if you want to.
You don't need to. I'm done.
From here we're gonna click on launch
instance and we are off to the races
almost. Yep, it's launching it.
It's probably booting it right now.
If you wanna see what's going on and start
to access it and see all the details,
go ahead and click on this link right
here, which is your instance id.
Now you don't have to know everything
about what I'm talking about to feel
comfortable here. It's fine if
this is new for you, let it be new,
like walking into a new
house. Just explore, have fun,
just don't get crazy <laugh>.
I'm gonna click on the link now and we
can see right there in the instant state.
Mine is still pending. So
I'm gonna wait just a second.
Take a little coffee break for that
to go to like booted ready to go.
So with your virtual machine, booted,
we're gonna scroll on over until we
see the public I PV four DNS name,
that's your server's address.
That's how you can access it.
We're gonna copy that right now.
Open up a new tab and paste it.
Now don't you hit enter
yet. Calm down. <laugh>.
Before we hit enter we're gonna do a
forward slash and type in admin and hit
enter. Oh yeah, looking good actually
you know what? Before we do that,
take all out extra stuff out just
after com. Do forward slash install.
I like this feature.
This will tell you if everything's
golden and good installation checks.
Do you got level those check marks,
things look good. Extended checks,
things look good. So anyways,
let's get back to the admin.
So take all that out just after com,
type in admin and let's get logged in.
The default login will be admin and the
password will be your instance ID for
this machine. So let's go back to AWS
and we scroll over just a little bit.
Our instance ID is right here. I'm
gonna copy everything the I dash,
copy that paste into the
password field and get logged in.
We are in but hold up,
we're hit immediately with
a hey invalid license file.
Do we have one yet? No we don't
have one. Let's go grab it.
Let's get back to our file cloud
portal that we were in earlier.
And notice on step two we had
the option to get our license.
We definitely want that.
Let's grab it right now.
Click get license and it downloaded
for you. That's all you had to do.
So now getting back to aws,
we're gonna click choose file,
choose that license file, open
it, apply it and that's it.
You've got a fully licensed file
cloud instance, pretty sick.
Now you're immediately hit with a barrage
of notifications on the right and I
don't like that. Uh, we'll
solve those here in a sec,
especially the invalid
url. We'll cover that.
But let's go ahead and click those away.
Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, goodbye,
goodbye. No, I'm not gonna show you
everything cuz there's too much.
But I will give you enough to get
started to like not be totally lost.
I'll give you some breadcrumbs. Now the
first thing we want to cover is storage.
And that's the whole point
of this entire video, right?
Is we wanna store our stuff somewhere
else besides Google Drive one Drive in
Dropbox. I'm getting tired of
saying those company's names.
Let's just call them the uh, the triad.
We're calling 'em the triad from now on.
Okay?
Currently with this install I only have
about 40 gigabytes or so of data to
store, which is not a lot.
And the reason for that is because that's
how big my hard drive is on the AWS e
C two machine I deployed. If I go
over to storage in my AWS console,
I can see my volume right there. Now you
might be like, okay well that's easy,
just increase the size of that
volume and we could do that.
But that wouldn't be the smartest thing,
at least not the most economical thing.
Increasing your volume size here cost
more money than it would be to do
something else. And that
something else is called s3.
S3 is Amazon's storage service
and it's relatively cheap.
It's gonna cost you 0.02 cents or dollars.
I'm not sure how to refer
to that per gigabyte,
which is about the industry standard.
And they're only gonna
charge you for what you use.
If you only got two gigabytes
of storage up there,
it's gonna cost you double of that.
Now comparing that to Google
or OneDrive or whatever it is,
you'll probably get a better deal with
Google and all these other companies.
But if your goal is to have more control
over your data and just have fun with
Amazon, this is a pretty
good option. Also,
if you're a company with large amounts
of data, like large amounts of data,
this will end up saving you
more money than Google will.
And you also have the option looking at
Amazon's price sheet of going like crazy
cuz they had different storage tiers.
If you didn't know about Amazon s3,
I was pricing you the standard tier,
which is 0.023 gigabytes per month.
You can go for their like
infrequent access tier,
just stuff you wanna store that's
much cheaper. Their glacier tier,
like glacier tier, which
is like crazy deep archive.
Let's do the math on that. If
I wanted to store 10 terabytes,
see how many <laugh>, how many zeros is
that? That seems right, doesn't it? No,
it doesn't seem right.
10 terabytes will cost you 10 bucks
a month just to archive your stuff.
That's pretty cool. And you
have the option of doing that.
You don't have that option with
these other consumer level things.
So I say all that to say this.
We're gonna set up right now an S3 storage
bucket and we're gonna connect that
to File cloud, which is fully
supported. So here in aws,
let's set up our S3 bucket.
It's actually not too crazy,
but it will involve two things.
First we're gonna set up an
S3 as you probably guessed,
and then we'll set up an IAM user
for file cloud to access that
bucket. An IAM is Amazon's identity
Access management sounds scary, it's not.
Let's do it real quick. First, our bucket
for s3. We're gonna go up to services,
the top left here and then we'll scroll
down just a bit on the side until we see
storage right here. Go
ahead and click on that.
And for us right now we
care about s3. Click on s3.
And this is actually pretty simple.
First we'll just create a bucket,
click on create a bucket.
The more I say that,
the more I like that
they called it a bucket.
We'll name it something for region,
let's keep it in the same region.
We created our E C two, which for me
was US East one. And then from there,
that's pretty much all
we need to worry about.
We're not gonna open this up to
the public. Keep it all default,
all protected and safe. And
finally down here at the bottom,
we'll click on create.
Ah, my pen create bucket.
We got our bucket time for the IAM user.
From here we'll click on the search bar.
We're gonna search for it real quick.
Just search for IAM. And there
it is right there. By the way,
you can use the search bar as much as
you want for all the things we've been
doing so far. So click on iam. Ah,
it took me outta dark mode. Okay,
thanks a lot aws. And here
we're gonna focus on one thing,
creating a new user account.
So on the left here we have
account management or access
management and we have
users click on users. And then
over here on the bottom right,
we'll click on add users. I'll
name this hack, well file cloud,
click on next,
click on next once more and we'll
click on create user at the bottom.
We're done. Not yet though.
<laugh>. We have one more thing.
We have to give that user
account permissions to be
able to interact and use the
S3 bucket. So find your user
account in our list right here.
There's mine right there.
I'm gonna click on that.
And here in the middle we
have our permission policies.
On the right we have add permissions.
Go ahead and click on that and
click on create inline policy.
Now this will be really simple cause
all we're gonna do is copy and paste.
First we're gonna go back
to our file cloud portal.
And remember previously when we clicked
on download here and we chose AWS and
opened up a new document
here for us to look at here,
they're gonna have some fun stuff for
us. If you scroll down just a bit,
you'll see the table of contents and
we'll want to click on the last option,
which is post install, expand that.
And then there'll be a link right
in the middle setting up file cloud,
manage S3 storage, click on that. Whew,
A lot of clicking and we're
almost there <laugh>. Um,
we're actually gonna do
all three of these options,
but we're gonna do number two first, which
sounds very counterintuitive, I know,
just stick with me here.
Click on change credentials
or configure cred credentials.
And then right here where
it says under S three key,
we have the following
permissions. Click on that.
Here we have some delicious J S O N
starting with that opening bracket.
We want to copy all of it until the
closing bracket or curly brace rather copy
that.
Go back to your AWS console where
we were configuring our policy and
we're gonna click on J S O N.
So right now we have the
visual edit editor selected.
We're gonna click on js o n instead.
We're gonna control A and then control
V pasting all our delicious J S O N.
Everything looks good there. Click
on review policy at the bottom right,
we'll name it real quick. And
then click on create policy.
And now our user account, which
mine was hack, well file cloud.
He has permissions to
mess with our S3 buckets.
So back in our file cloud
dashboard, we have one goal here.
It has to change from using the storage
in Amazon, which is just our hard disc,
our drive for the virtual machine change
from using that to using Amazon's S3
file storage.
Now for this we do have to get a little
under the hood and mess with command
line, which is kind of fun. So
let's just do it real quick.
It's not gonna be crazy.
But first I'll show you what
we're changing here on the left.
We scroll down just a little bit,
we'll have settings and then
we'll click on settings.
Go ahead and close that tutorial.
And what we wanna click on right now
is the storage section in our settings
right here.
Notice here in our storage settings we
can change the location of where we store
our file cloud settings.
But I don't see anything about S3
and that's cuz we have to enable.
And for that we gotta go to the
command line. So let's get back to aws.
This won't be scary, I trust me,
it won't be scary if we get
back to our e C two instance,
which if you get back
to your e c two service,
you'll be able to get there pretty quick.
Let's just go and open the settings here
on the right you'll see the option for
actions and then connect cuz we wanna
connect to us. So click on connect.
And I love this cause right here at the
very bottom they have an example of the
command you can use to automatically
connect to your box with the key you
downloaded if you just created that.
So I'm gonna copy this command,
I'm gonna launch my terminal here and
I'm gonna change my directory real quick
to the downloads folder. That's
where I have my, my key stored.
I just downloaded it and that's
probably where you have yours too.
So I'll do CD downloads and then
I'll simply paste that command.
And all this is doing is connecting
to our server via SSH using our key.
And it's not gonna ask us for a password.
It's gonna be pretty sick. Ready?
Go accept all fingerprints. Yes sir.
And we're in and here we're gonna
edit one file. So with me right now,
type in pseudo then we're gonna use Nano
cause Nano is the best text editor in
Linux period. Just as.
And then we're gonna edit this file that
be forward slash var slash www slash
html slash config slash cloud
config dot php head enter.
And we're gonna change one thing here.
I'm gonna scroll down pretty much towards
the bottom of this file until I see
this. Define Tony, do cloud
storage implementation.
Right now it says local. We don't want
that. We want it to say Amazon s3.
And that's what we're gonna do.
Gonna move my cursor on over,
delete local and say
Amazon S3. And that's it.
We'll hit control X, Y enter to save
and that should be all we have to do.
And then one more thing, we're just gonna
copy a file. That's all we have to do.
We're gonna type in pseudo once more.
We're gonna use the CP command for
copy and we'll copy this file var ww
html config,
Amazon S3 storage config dash sample php.
And we're gonna copy that file to same
location. It's just gonna paste that in.
But we're gonna remove
the sample and the dash.
So where it looks just like this
Amazon S3 storage config do php.
We're not gonna change that file,
we just need to create a copy of it.
Hit enter when we got it. Now
looking back at our storage settings,
it looks a little bit different. We
have S3 options now let's configure it.
So our first two options, S3
Key and S3 C. Let's get that.
We're gonna go back to our
IAM management console.
Jump into our user account we created,
which for me was Hack. Well file cloud.
And we'll see over here in
the menu options right here
in the middle kind of is
security credentials. Go ahead and click
on that. If you scroll down just a bit,
you'll see a section called Access
keys. We wanna create one of those.
So let's so click on create access key.
From here we're gonna click on the little
radio button for third party service.
Click on I understand and click
on Next describe it five o'clock.
And then we'll click on
create access key. Done.
So now this information right
here is what we need first.
Look at the access key. I'll copy that.
Go over to File Cloud and paste that right
here where it says S three key paste.
Then we'll grab the secret access
key. It's a secret. Click on copy,
it's copied, we'll paste it here.
And the secret for bucket name,
whatever your bucket name was.
Mine was Hack, well bucket.
Everything else is optional. We'll click
on save S3 settings, click on. Okay,
settings verified, we're good to go.
We are now using Amazon S3 as our storage
for File cloud, which is pretty sick.
So if you did this, that's amazing
<laugh>, because that was, yeah,
you gotta be honest, it's kind of complex.
Right now we're using Amazon as a
cloud storage provider on the back end.
Bio cloud is kind of our
front end and it's amazing.
So let's test it real quick.
Um, let's create a new user.
Kinda our first thing to do on file
cloud. Let's go to users on the left here,
under users and groups.
Click on add a user,
it's all pretty basic stuff for
authentication notice we have default
authentication selected by default,
but you could change it to
active directory or ldap.
You can integrate with anything pretty
much. Let's put a little user in.
I'll say Chuck, Chuck a
little bit of password here,
email address and click on Create. Now
let's just grab our URL for file cloud.
I'll open up an incognito window,
I'll get logged in with my new user
and here we go. My home personal cloud,
just like that. First of all, it's
already here. It's already happening.
Let me add a file. I'm gonna go to my
files. I'll just drag and drop something.
I'll drag and drop a Dropbox. Uh,
picture <laugh>. Perfect, it's there.
Now what I wanted to show you is let's
go to Amazon S3 real quick and let's see
if we have any new objects
in our bucket. Look at that.
We have an object one I just uploaded.
Now one more thing you may
wanna do for Amazon S3 settings.
So here in file cloud and our
storage, if we scroll down just a bit,
we'll see a button that says
where is it? Where to go. Oh,
right here we have S3
Encryption and Manage.
We can enable Amazon S3 encryption,
which will encrypt our data at rest
and in transit between Amazon S3
and File Cloud. Our file cloud server.
I'll leave the default option here
and I'll click on enable encryption.
Keeping in mind that it will encrypt
everything currently in there.
So it's best to do this. Like
to begin with <laugh>, click on.
Okay and we're good.
All existing files and new files
will be encrypted using a E S 2 56.
Okay, sorry I squeaked
a bit there at the end.
I feel pretty accomplished
right now. That was pretty cool.
Now at this point you do have file
clouds set up in AWS using S3 storage,
but there's probably a few
more things you'll want to do.
Like using your own domain name,
setting up a legit SSL certificate.
We're gonna cover that
here in a moment. In fact,
I'll put a timestamp jump to that real
quick if you wanna just do that right
now. But now I wanna get into
hosting this yourself on prem.
Now once you have your file
cloud CE account setup,
which I covered just earlier,
installing on-prem is pretty easy.
And I'll show you a few different options.
So here we have the option
to download our server.
I'll click on download clicking
on any of these options.
We'll show you how to do
it. I'll you real quick.
How to do the docker
installation, the Linux install.
And for a really quick way to do this,
just download the O V F and
actually I think docker's faster.
But you can download a
virtual machine image.
They can just load up in virtual box
already ready to go. And then Windows.
I'm not really gonna show you that
cause that's kind of self-explanatory.
All you gotta do is download an MSI
installer and just go from there.
It'll do it for you. So let's knock
out the easy one first. Docker,
click on docker. Really just a few
commands you can copy and paste yourself.
So here are my Linux server or it
could be your Linux computer cloud two,
wherever. Let's first make sure we have
Docker and Docker compose installed.
So we'll do a little pseudo a P T update,
make sure our repositories are up to date.
And then we'll do a pseudo
A P T I install docker io,
docker dash compose
dash y, just like this.
Hit enter little coffee
break. It'll do its thing.
If you have no idea what
docker is, check it out.
I got a video somewhere explaining
what it is. It's amazing.
You're gonna have a great time,
but you don't have to know what Docker
is to run this. It's already installed.
Cool. Now we're gonna do a couple things.
First we're gonna use this w get command
here they have fors pulled down their
Docker composed file. We'll
just paste it in there.
It pulled on the file if I'll do an
ls, there's our Docker composed file.
And then it wants us to pull
all four file cloud images,
which takes a long time, especially
for the community version,
the file cloud solar image.
So we're not gonna pull that.
And we also don't need file cloud preview.
So all we'll do is copy the command up
until file cloud preview. We'll just do,
we'll stop at MongoDB, which is
their database. We'll copy that.
Go back to our command
prompt, clean up a little bit,
type in pseudo paste that
command and let the party start.
This could take a minute, so just
take a little coffee break. Also,
keep in mind that Docker,
they recommend only for training and
testing and it's not optimized for
production servers. Now does that mean
you can't use it in your home lab?
Not at all. You probably just
use that all the time. It's fine.
But if you're run into issues,
that's probably why. Okay,
it actually wasn't that long. If you
do a pseudo doctor PS it's running,
it's going. So let's see if it
works. Grab your IP address,
navigate on out to the IP
address slash admin. Actually no,
let's do a forward slash install
to make sure it's all healthy.
This will do some checks to make
sure it installed correctly.
Everything's running. It
totally is. That's awesome.
Now let's go to forward slash admin.
We'll log in with admin and super secure.
Password. Password, all
lowercase. And we are in.
So now the last thing we have to
worry about is the license file,
which looking at our file cloud
portal, just under what we downloaded,
we can say get our license, click get
license and it will download for us.
Just like that. Notice that to download
there. Getting back to our server,
we'll just say choose file,
pick that license file,
apply it and we're good to go.
Now there are a lot of things
we gotta do to set this up.
We'll continue that here in a moment.
If you wanna jump straight there,
go ahead now I'm gonna cover
the Linux install real quick.
So to install directly onto Linux,
we'll click on our Linux X
86 64 Ubuntu Deb package.
It'll take us to a place where we can
install it directly from our repository,
which is fantastic.
Now I do highly recommend you go with
their recommended server os and that's
UB 2 20 0 4 lts. Just do that.
It'll save you a headache, trust me.
So go ahead and click on that.
And it's simply a matter of
adding some repositories,
updating your repositories and installing
it like that. It's that simple.
So let's do it real quick.
We're gonna copy all these
commands right here in step one,
adding all the repos and
we'll paste that here.
It's gonna update our repos done and then
we're going to install the Apache and
Mongo DB servers. And actually I'm
just gonna do the first two commands.
We'll paste those here and then I'm
gonna grab the command down here that'll
automatically accept the ULA. And
install hands free, paste that command,
give it just a little bit
of time. Quick coffee break.
Now throughout the install you may hit
things like this and I always say install
the package maintainer version. It's
kind of annoying, just go through it.
There's not too many but
just enough to be annoying.
Then right here, I'm just gonna
say why enter one more time.
I think it was last time.
No look more stop it. Okay,
think it's done now that should be
it. Let's just make sure it's working.
We'll do an SS dash tool pin and I do
see ports open. That's a good sign.
I'm gonna grab that IP address and
navigate out there to see if it's working.
Type in the IP address. We'll
go to forward slash install.
Make sure everything's good.
Dude, things are looking great.
If you get the screen, you did a good
job and if you see how blue check marks,
you also did a great job.
So now we can go to forward slash admin
after the IP address instead get logged
in with the super secret password and
use the name of admin then password,
all lowercase.
That's the stupidest combination
I've ever heard in my life we're in.
But we need a license file. Getting
back to our file cloud portal,
just click on get your license and
it will download the license for you.
Just downloaded mine, I'll choose it,
apply it. We're good to go kind of.
We'll ignore all those messages
on the side. And then finally,
if you wanna set up your file cloud
just with the virtual machine image,
it's super simple. You download it, yeah,
spin it up in virtual box
or E S X I or whatever.
It's just pre-baked and you follow
the steps I mentioned previously.
Go to the install full uh url, make sure
everything's good. Then go to admin,
load your file. If you're like
I didn't, I skipped those parts,
we'll just go back and watch
that last part. You'll get it.
Now I didn't mention that all you need
to replace the triad is a computer and an
external hard drive and you'll want do
that because right now my server here
doesn't have much storage's got
like 50 gigs or something like that.
What I want to use is an external
hard drive. But how do we do that?
Let's set that up real
quick. It's not too bad.
And this will be specific to Linux.
Now I do recommend you start out with a
blank hard drive completely clean cuz we
are gonna format it. So I'm gonna grab
this guy, plug him into my computer,
my Linux server.
So first I'll type in the command LS
USB for list USB and I can tell right
there there's my Western Digital
right there. I know he's plugged in.
Now I'm gonna type in ls, B
L K. I can see right here.
SDB one is how he's identified on my
Linux machine and I can tell like he's got
1.8 terabytes right there. Perfect.
Now I'm gonna double check and
make sure he is not mounted.
I'm gonna type in mount
and I'll just do a,
actually let's do a mount
pipe grip for SDB one.
Nothing. So he is not mounted.
We're good to go there.
Now we have to format our hard drive.
Keeping in mind this
will erase everything.
Hope you know that one command super easy.
Pseudo M K F S will do a
dash t. And then EXT four.
This is the EXT four file system.
It's I think the best You can try
other options. But for simplicity,
let's try this and
it'll specify our drive,
which will be in the dev location
on your Linux file system.
And then SDB one for me. Whatever
you had when you did L S B L K,
put it there. Go ahead and do it.
Ready, set, go. It'll take a minute.
So just a little little coffee
break. Formatting is complete.
Now we can mount our drive. So real
quick, I'm gonna make a new directory.
I'm gonna say NK dir slash
mnt slash file cloud.
That's my new directory.
I'm gonna check the permissions on that
directory real quick by typing in ll and
in the directory.
And I can see right here that we'll need
to allow some permissions for our users
according to this stuff right here. But
we're gonna do this real quick, okay,
will be pseudo c h mod.
We'll do you for users
plus RW for read and write.
And then that new directory we just
created Mount or N N T file Cloud
done. Looks good so far. So
now we can mount our drive,
our external drive and it's
really simple to do that.
It'll be pseudo mount
will specify our drive,
which was Dev sdd one for me.
And it'll specify where you want
to mount it in the file system,
which for us we created a folder
for that already slash nt slash file
cloud, it's mounted. If we type in
mount, we can check that out real quick.
There it is. This video has so much
stuff. I hope you're having fun.
Let's check our file permissions
real quick for that folder.
Once more we'll do ll slash NT slash
file cloud, make sure everything's good.
Looks like we need some work actually
because the Apache service will need to be
able to read and write to this directory.
So let's change the permissions
real quick. Once more,
we'll do pseudo CH mod for simplicity.
Let's do a for everybody plus read
write and then we'll specify our
directory MT file cloud. Actually
let's set back real quick.
Let's go back to the beginning of CH
mod and we'll do a dash r dash capital R
for recursive. Let's add that real quick.
Check our permissions once
more things look a lot better.
So now here in file cloud, let for our
storage path, let's change it real quick.
We'll do forward slash mentee slash
file cloud where I have my external
drive mounted. I'll check the
path. Looks good. Awesome.
Click on save.
And now we've successfully mounted and
are using an external hard drive with
file cloud. Felt like a lot. Kind
of was a lot but that's awesome.
Now there's two more things I
wanna show you with File Cloud.
Two more things we wanna set
up to make it a bit better.
First I wanna get a domain
name and SSL set up.
And second I wanna show you real quick
how we can add a user set up our phone
and everything with File Cloud and the
coolest feature by far mounting a network
share like you're there,
like you're anywhere,
like you can go anywhere and have this
network share mounted. It's so cool.
Now this first tutorial is specific to
AWS or if you're just hosting File Cloud
externally in some other cloud
that's publicly accessible,
it has a public IP address.
We want to get that sucker a
domain name and enable ssl.
Now for that I'm going to assume that
you already have a domain name and if you
don't already have one,
I've got other videos that'll show you
how to get a domain name pretty cheaply
and pretty awesomely. And you're gonna
wanna set that up with CloudFlare.
These are two prerequisites
I'm not gonna walk you through.
So buy a domain name and set that domain
name up with CloudFlare using it as
your name server. Again,
I've got videos somewhere around here
floating around that'll show you exactly
how to do that.
Now we'll start with our config
and CloudFlare here in CloudFlare.
We're gonna go to the DNS
settings of our domain.
Go to records and we're going to add a
new record. This will be a sub domain,
meaning it's gonna be network chuck.com,
but it'll have something before.
So file do network chuck.com. I'm
gonna call it Hack well files.
And then we'll point that domain to our
IP address in Amazon or Leno or wherever
you're hosting your uh file cloud
server. So I'll go back to aws,
grab that public IPV four address right
here, copy and paste that right here.
I'll keep the proxy status
enabled and I'll click save.
So now hack well files.network
chuck.com will forward to my file cloud
server. But that's just half the story.
We now need to set up our file cloud
server to believe that's its new name.
That's where you can find it. Now I do
have a link to File Clouds guy below,
but I wanna walk you through
it real quick. First,
we'll create a CSR request for File Cloud.
Now if you've never done something like
this, get a certificate signed for ssl.
It's pretty cool to walk through
this and learn it right now.
I struggled with this so much in the
beginning of my career, I'm like CSR, ssl,
what is that? To know this now
is so powerful. So anyways,
here what we're gonna do, we're
gonna use this command right here,
which is open SSL to generate a csr.
You do wanna be logged into
your Amazon e C two instance,
the terminal to run these commands. I'm
gonna paste that right now. Open ssl,
let's go. It's gonna ask you to do
some things like where do you live us,
the country Code State, Texas
City Dallas Company Hack.
Well now for common name, this
is where you wanna put your url.
So it'll be hack, well what did I
call it again? I don't even remember.
Oh Hack Well files. Hack well
files do network chuck.com.
That'll be your common
name. Your CN email address.
Am I gonna do a password? Keep going and
it's done. Now here if you type in ls,
you should see a server CSR and
a server key created that csr.
We want that sucker. We're gonna
cap that server file real quick.
Type in cat server dot csr, there's
our certificate request right there.
Leave that there, we'll come back in
a minute. Let's go to CloudFlare here.
I'm gonna navigate over to the SSL TLS
section on the left and go to Origin
server here.
I'm gonna get my certificate signed by
CloudFlare and then I'm gonna download
that. So I'll say create certificate.
I'm gonna say use my private key in csr.
Right here is where we'll
paste our certificate.
If we get back to our terminal here,
we're gonna grab this, copy it,
paste it right here.
Now here for host names.
I'm just gonna be very
specific and say File hack,
well file z network chuck.com
and then click create.
Now leave that page there.
We're gonna step forward into
the next steps in our terminal.
I know this is kind of involved and
other solutions are kind of automatic,
but it's fun to learn
this manually. It is.
So first thing we'll do is we'll use the
A two e n mod command to enable SSL and
Apache. So we'll copy that command,
go to our Ubuntu, paste it there,
done next step. Now
getting back to CloudFlare,
we're gonna grab this certificate file
or this text. We're just gonna copy it,
get back to our terminal and we're
gonna make a new file real quick.
We're gonna say nano server ct,
we'll paste that certificate in
there, control X, Y enter to save,
good to go.
And then we're gonna copy and paste
these commands to make a new directory in
Apache. We'll paste that first one.
We'll copy our certificate to that
folder and then we'll copy our server
key, our private key to that
folder. And then one last thing,
we gotta modify our web server config
and Apache to use this new certificate.
So the file location is
here. Just gonna grab that.
I'm gonna type in nano edit that file.
I'm gonna do a pseudo
before that just in case.
We're gonna change our virtual
host right here from 80 to 4 43.
And then just under document
route we're gonna add server name
and then put in the server
name that you set up.
Mine was hack well files.network
chuck.com.
And then just under that we're gonna
copy the SSL engine on paragraph right
here, paste that right there, make sure
everything's lined up nice and neat.
Then we'll hit control X Y enter
to save and that should be it.
All we'll have to do
now is restart Apache,
which I'll just copy and paste
that command and we should be good.
So now in theory I should be
able to go out to hack well
files.network chuck.com and that should
take me right to my file cloud server
SSL and everything. And it
totally did. That's awesome.
I'm gonna get log into
the admins one once more.
And there's one thing I wanna
change. It says invalid server url.
You wanna change that cuz as important
as you share your files and everything,
they'll have a an URL that
people can access it with.
And if it's like 1, 2, 7 0 0
1, that's not gonna be great.
So let's change that real quick.
We're gonna go to settings
here and here under server url.
We're just gonna change it to
https Hack well files.network
chuck.com. It's gonna check it, make
sure it's all good. Server's valid, save.
Now before I show you the
awesome network share feature,
I'm sure you're wondering, Hey
Chuck, I did an on-prem install.
How do I handle SSL and
CloudFlare and all that?
I would recommend using CloudFlare
tunnels. It's called Cloud Flared.
And I have a video right here of how to
set that up for any service within your
home.
It basically allows you to open up a very
secure tunnel into your house through
your firewall and access
all your stuff anywhere.
Easily do that here with File Cloud.
I'm not gonna walk through it right
now cause this video's getting so long,
but it's not very, very crazy different
from what we've been doing here.
Now let me show you real quick
this cool server share thing.
So first I'm gonna step a new user.
Um, this can apply to anybody anywhere,
whatever installation method you
used, I wanna set up a new user.
I already had one for Chuck. I'm gonna
add a new one. Add. I'll say Bernard.
Bernard and I'll create
that user. Awesome.
Now I'll open up a new incognito tab,
log in hack well files.network chuck.com.
It's so cool, this works flawlessly.
Get logged in as Bernard bam,
I'm a new user. I got my
own cloud ready to go.
Now I can use File Cloud for my
web browser anywhere all the time.
And it's amazing. But the
apps are what make it shine.
So here on my dashboard I have the
option to install mobile and desktop apps
right here. I'm gonna click on that.
Now here we have a few options.
This first one,
file cloud sync is what you would
see for most Cloud Drive things.
It'll store your files
both on your computer and
remotely and they'll sync back
and forth. Pretty cool. But the
drive is what's really neat. <laugh>,
let's try that out now.
So I'm gonna click drive and I'll
download this for Windows. I'll launch it,
install it. You know how installations
work. Pretty basic. I'll restart later,
no big deal. And I'll
launch my file Cloud drive.
It's kind of hard to say File Cloud to
get started. I'll put in my information.
So I'll server's already been set up.
I'll log in. You can set a download limit,
which is cool. And then you choose
your mount. So I'll mount it as,
let's just say L and bam,
I'm done. Start using drive.
So it gave me a little recent activity
of how it mounted and it's, it's mounted.
So check this out, take a file here,
put it in my files, it's there.
And here are my drive,
map drive. There it is.
Now what's cool about this is I
can actually share it from here.
I'll right click that. Click on more
options. File cloud, share link.
I can just change my share
options right here within <laugh>,
my stinking file explorer.
That's pretty cool.
I can say expires tomorrow. I can
restrict it to one download. That's,
let's do two downloads and then I'll do
a password and then I'll copy that link.
I'll get email notifications and people
use it. Let's test that out real quick.
There's the password. Download the file.
So that feature I don't see anyone else
doing. It's pretty cool. So File Cloud,
community edition, you're gonna
have a great time. It's really fun.
Set this up and let me know how
it went for you. Comment below.
And also if you're a business or maybe
you're thinking about pitching a new file
solution to your company,
the enterprise features are what kind
of set File Cloud apart from everybody
else. Like I said, educational
institutions, financial government,
all that kind of stuff. They
use this to manage their data.
It's like here in governance,
which is a very scary word.
You can pretty much do anything you
want with your data monitor every bit
<laugh>, like you can do legal
holds, data leak protection.
You can classify your content,
you can put in retention policies,
smart D L P, an entire compliance
center for gdpr, hipaa,
I T A R, <laugh>. It's all kinds of
stuff. You can do workflows if this,
then that on files. I mean look at the
triggers I have for these workflows.
The file is downloaded, the
comment is added. All these things,
I mean every little thing you can control.
And that's killer for a
business and an enterprise,
not to mention you can integrate it
with everything. Active directory,
single sign-on. You can implement
antivirus scanning on all your data.
I mean looking at the third
party integrations you can
do, of course antivirus,
Salesforce Seam, reCAPTCHA,
McAfee, Microsoft Teams.
You can even enable it. Edit
your files in Microsoft Office,
like if you're in the portal, just
auto open. Now that was File Cloud.
And I'm now realizing that this video is
so super long <laugh> because there was
a lot we had to cover.
And I think File Cloud is amazing because
they focus on one thing and they do it
great. And that's just file
sharing and data security.
And they do that for enterprises and
they can do it for you in your house.
That's pretty cool. So that's
the enterprise solution.
Now let's move on to more of the home
lab open source solution and that's next
cloud. Now next cloud is
pretty popular already.
You've probably already heard of Next
Cloud and setting it up is not too bad.
Now my favorite way to install
Next cloud is through Docker.
They make it really easy and you can
find Next Cloud in a lot of places.
By the way, you can run
on your Sonology and nas.
You can integrate it with True nas. So
it really is a great home lab solution.
So let's try the Docker
install real quick. Now,
next cloud can only be installed
on Linux-based systems. Again,
file Cloud is the only one I know of
that can go on Windows. So real quick,
in Linux we need Docker. Let's
install it, make sure we have it.
We'll do a pseudo a P T update,
not update, update. There we go.
And then we'll do a pseudo
APT install docker.io y.
Now we go grab there Docker command,
which you copy and paste this code.
It's a simple docker run
command, paste it and run.
It's gonna pull all the necessary
images doing its thing. And that's it.
Go to https, your IP address or
your domain name, whatever it is,
port 80 80 From here you
got a weird password thing.
You wanna copy this little
phrase here. Kebab maturity,
paste that password in there for the
next cloud A I login. And by the way,
the reason you can't do anything else
here is because they didn't do a dash D
for running it as a Damon for Docker.
By default, it's kinda annoying.
Now depending on your setup,
you may wanna do a reverse proxy and
refer to the reverse proxy documentation.
I'm not gonna refer to that
here again because <laugh>,
my video is already so stinking long.
But right now I'm running this on LE
Node and LE node's already public.
And I'm just gonna use the reverse
DNS address I have for Lin node.
I'll submit that as the url.
Now next cloud is pretty cool
because they have a ton of features,
like almost too many. So they uh,
integrate with next cloud office.
They call collab. You can do next
cloud talk. I don't wanna do that.
I'm not gonna do the office
thing either. Turn that off,
save changes and then I'll
download and start the containers.
It's kind of weird how they do it where
it's like you install the installer as a
Docker container and
then <laugh> and then it,
the Docker container installs the other
Docker containers. It's really strange,
right? So that's what it's doing right
now. We'll wait. Okay, it's almost there.
The yellow means they're starting. So
we're gonna wait for that to finish.
Now also, while we're waiting,
the other cool part about Next cloud
is you can install it on pretty much
anything including a raspberry
pie. They have Next Cloud Pie,
which will work pretty well.
Now it won't be blazing fast,
but it does its thing.
And also one thing you'll want to note
with Next Cloud as I'm watching the
startup is that it's
very like online service,
meaning it needs to have an internet
connection pretty much all the time to
work.
If you wanna like keep it closed off
on your network without any connection,
I don't think it works well
with that. I could be wrong,
but I was reading some documentation
and that's what I found. But anyways,
it looks like mine is done. Um, there's
my admin user name and then password.
I'm gonna copy this password real
quick. I'll click on open my next cloud.
Let's get logged in, get a nice little
graphic meeting. This is pretty neat.
And notice they try to be, they
try to be everything right? Um,
you can like have a contacts
and and calendar and and do
notes. And you've got tasks like
I like what they're trying to do,
but also I hate it because it's like I
just wanna manage my files and you're
making this really complex. But files
they can manage and much like File Cloud,
they have apps for everything
and they do have a drive thing,
but they don't do that Mapped
drive thing, which I love.
Now one of the big differences between
next Cloud and File Cloud will be the
limitations. Next cloud being an open
source solution and much more, you know,
targeted toward home users. They
pretty much give you everything,
all the features. So unlimited
users, you can add a bunch of apps,
like lemme see all the apps, you can add
all the integrations. It's pretty cool.
And if you're a tinkerer and you love
to just add a bunch of things to your
stuff and troubleshoot things for
a while, uh, this will be fun.
And with File Cloud, you're not
gonna see all that file Cloud.
You actually have a
limitation of five users.
So if you're gonna be
doing more than five,
next cloud might be the solution
for you. Unless you're a business,
then you may want to really,
really consider File Cloud.
Now Next Cloud does have
similar sharing features.
When I wanna share a link I can
control, like can they edit it,
I can hide the download, but
I can't limit the download.
But I can do things like password
protect and set expiration dates,
even though I'll note Hi buddy. So
pretty much the same as File File,
but you can't limit the downloads,
which I don't think anybody else does.
So I know this video has probably
been so long. I'm exhausted.
I've been recording for hours.
But I hope I encourage you to
possibly kick the triad to the curb.
Now I still use Google Drive and I use
Dropbox. I use 'em as backup. For me,
I'm comfortable with that decision
cause I like my data being everywhere.
I don't care if they have my
videos, I make those public anyway.
I just want them backed up in
as many places as possible.
So I use a little bit of everything.
But now for personal things,
no I don't put everything up there.
I like control of that. So for you,
you may want to be very much in control
of your personal data if you're a
company,
even more so cuz you may have a ton of
regulations where you can't put your
stuff up there. So you
have to have that control.
So solutions like File Cloud specifically
can help you with the business side of
things.
And if you're a person who has that
business level of security and fantastic
file sharing file cloud will be for you.
And if you're more of a fan
of open source, you like a
product that does a lot,
next cloud is really fun too.
So I'll leave it up to you,
whichever one you think,
but I just want to make sure you guys
know there's an option besides going with
the triad. It does require a bit
of IT knowledge but of tinkering.
But we covered that here in this video.
And please let me know in
the comments what you think,
what do you use for file sharing,
how do you keep your stuff safe?
That's all I got. I'll
get you guys next time.